# Hearing

## Main Points
- Sounds enter through the ear and reach the tympanic membrane to create vibrations. These vibrations are then amplified and the cochlea transduces the vibrations into neural signals. This process is possible due to the movement of hair, these hair cells are like piano keys in a spiral shape that can be bent by the vibrations.
- The cochlea is tonotopically organized, meaning that the frequency of the sound is encoded in the location of the hair cells. Cells at the base of the cochlea are sensitive to low frequencies and cells at the top are sensitive to high frequencies. This is the start of an **auditory pathway** that reaches the auditory cortex.
- The cochlea is completely developed at birth and no replacement is needed. The degree of deafness does not affect the length or volume of the cochlea, while it can affect other aspects like height. High-resolution computed tomography lets us see this.
- The cochlear implant generates artificial electrical signals by encoding sound into electrical signals using a speech processor. There are almost a million of these implanted worldwide. Neuroplasticity makes the brain adapt to the new signals which originally sound electronic but become more natural over time.
- The surgery is very challenging as you need to enter the cochlea and insert the electrode. The material needs to be stiff to enter the cochlea yet compliant enough to bend around the cochlea. Improving in imaging methods makes it possible to design an electrode array to better match the tonotopic frequency distribution.

## Future Developments
- In the future, we need to improve the surgery to make it less invasive. Some research I saw was focused on developing a better networked device to make the hearing more natural across both ears.
- New machine learning algorithms may be able to better convert sound into electrical signals. This may be able to improve the signal processing to make the hearing more natural.

## Questions
- I was wondering how painful surgeries like this tend to be. I assume there is a lot of anesthetic involved but I'm curious about whether there are long term effects on the patient.
