# Electroceuticals: Dr. Paydarfar

## Main Points
- Electrical treatment can be used to treat numerous nervous system disorders. Electricity has been explored as a means of treatment since 2500 BC and modern electroceutical treatments include deep brain stimulation, transcranial direct stimulation, etc.
- There exist membrane proteins that are sensitive to voltage and regulate ion fluxes. These fluxes can create action potentials.
- Implanted micro-electrodes can deliver electrical stimulation which is able to switch cells from pathological to healthy states. The quantity of stimulation is precise, as too little will not generate an action potential and too much will cause cell death.
- Responsive neural stimulation (RNS) can suppress epileptic seizures if the correct stimulus waveform is applied. We can use black-box optimization techniques like simulated annealing or genetic algorithms to find the optimal waveform.
- RNS uses counterbalancing to stabilize the system responses but it is phase dependent. This is limiting and we ideally want a system that can be applied at any time, regardless of phase.

## Future Developments
- In the future, we need to discover waveforms that can overcome the phase restriction. This can help us overcome issues like long-loop reentry tachyarrhythmia. Many technologies that depend on precise timing are severely limited in their applications
- Better optimization algorithms can make it significantly easier to discover optimal waveforms. There are recent studies demonstrating novel optimization techniques that use symbolic discovery (https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.06675) and there will likely be many new optimization research directions in the future.

## Questions
Something I was wondering is whether there are certain conditions in a patient that can lead to quicker convergence of an optimal waveform. I'm generally interested in optimization problems and am very curious about the state of the art in terms of search algorithms for this specific problem.